[Music]
welcome to slash forward the channel
will we provide summarization and
commentary for all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're gonna start another new series
called well you saw the town card its
monsters of horror the series we'll
explore the common horror trope of
including an insufferable turd within
the group of protagonists to act as a
sort of secondary antagonist someone
other than the main bad guy who's used
to create tension and drama from within
the group this can be a useful and
sometimes necessary element to the story
but it's often overused or over acted
creating an annoying distraction for the
viewer for the inaugural episode we're
gonna review Friday the 13th 3d the
first of the franchise to contain a true
monster this is an excellent starting
point because it gives us multiple
points of comparison to clearly define
what we're pursuing here the first film
focuses on developing the final girl it
relies on a plot twist ending no extra
antagonist needed here the second in the
series starts to dip its toes into the
water with this guy but he never pays us
the courtesy of getting murdered for our
viewing pleasure so he doesn't quite
make it the third film is tasked with
keeping it fresh and finding a way to
create drama and tension within a well
established formula so obviously 3d and
then adding an insufferable antagonistic
[ __ ] to the movie I know what you're
thinking as soon as you saw that we were
talking about Friday the 13th part 3
your mind wandered to Shelley and that's
exactly what we're gonna start Shelley's
very hard to like he seems to spend a
significant portion of the movie trying
to make his friends hate his guts he
gets invited onto this cabin camping
trip under the auspices of being set up
on a blind date which is an impossible
situation if they don't hit things off
neither of them can leave add to this
that Shelley's natural response to these
types of stressors is to engage in
immature antics that involve constant
pranking with both elaborate setup and
time commitment the type of pranks that
only afford a reasonable payoff for the
effort if they result in genuine
psychological damage and you have a
recipe for disaster he does is for
attention to feel loved to find his
power most likely stripped from him by
being constantly derided by his father
for never being good enough and
obviously for sexual gratification but
twist despite all this Shelley is not
the monster I hope that wasn't a Shelley
level prank I just pulled there
Shelley's the prime example of what
we're not looking for in a monster but
once viewed independent of his flaws and
in moments of solitude and quiet
reflection we witness a window into his
soul where we find longing pain
heartache self-doubt in a sufficient
degree of pathos to evoke our sympathies
jerk he does things he understands how
people react and he hates himself for it
but he can't stop
he even has a moment where he finds his
courage and runs down a biker in his car
demonstrating a clear desire to live up
to an ideal he just lacks the confidence
to fully actualize this portion of his
psyche all this leads to him dying in
the spirit with the only witness to his
death assuming that he's pulling another
prank
and finally if for no other reason we
have to respect Shelley for providing
Jason with his now iconic hockey mask
and with that we have to shift our focus
now to the true monster Rick a Rick
plays a responsible mature role within
the group which only promotes confusion
around ascertaining the degree to which
he may either be a prick or a true
predator these movies generally present
their main characters as teenagers
participating in woodland fun during the
summer months
although aging the characters is not
always easy just from observing the
actors for instance the two potheads are
these supposed to be teenagers they're
the least responsible of the crew for
tweeners who travel out to this cabin to
hang with Rick who's clearly a grown-ass
man so how do we interpret what's going
on here if we assume the characters are
the appropriate age of the actress the
implications that their relationships
get somewhat dark Rex no longer one of
the boys he's a grown man
emotionally manipulating a high school
girl with that in mind let's review some
clues that indicate Rick as a generally
unlikable character and first off he's a
large man driving a tiny car and he
never attempts to assimilate himself
into the group in any way he has a
penchant for draping wool sweaters over
flannel shirts in the summertime and he
gets upset with Shelley for the damage
to his car despite the fact that this
was a defining moment in Shelley's life
the damage was caused by an unidentified
third party and by the way the glass
shattered you know Rick had clearly
cheaped out on a prior repair none of
these things speak favorably of Rick but
is mostly just background noise compared
to his persistent campaign of emotional
abuse imposed upon Chris the protagonist
of the movie and his love interest if
you watch his interactions you quickly
see that while she's working hard to
heal from a significant psychological
trauma and returning to the cabin as a
part of her long journey to react ylim
ate herself to the places she previously
found comforting and safe Rick muses
trip is her last chance to allow him to
give her his gift as he constantly and
explicitly pressures her to have sex
with him here are some clips where he
goes back and forth and his affection
for her keeping her constantly guessing
and uncertain he allows her to play the
alternating role of being the sole
reason he's there while also ignoring
any of her emotional needs there's only
so many cold showers I can take I think
gained some weight then I gave up an
opportunity to spend the weekend with
Mary Jo Conrad for this why should I
don't play fair do you in an example of
his disregard here he is harden egging
her by refusing to look in her direction
while having a conversation no doubt he
has a full length mirror propped up on a
hay bill so he can watch how his
slippery body works when his muscles are
under duress like a proper strong boy
one can only conclude from this evidence
that Rick is confused and insecure he
considers himself a mature adult and an
alpha male but with only a superficial
understanding of what any of that means
he only understands his own perverted
desires and lacks the empathy required
to understand how his words and actions
affect the people around him the only
real question were left with is whether
or not he falls fully into sociopathy
unfortunately we never fully find out
because before he has the opportunity to
see his plan through
he's fittingly dispatched in a way that
robbed him of his voice and power
ineffectually flailing in vain as Jason
pops his head like a grape how does he
rank now seemingly not very high while
he went heavy on the psychological abuse
he was never overtly violence and didn't
do much to generally annoy or distract
the group his main strength was his
subtlety which allowed him to mostly
float under the radar but he serves as
an excellent first example of what we're
doing here because the role his
character fills stands out among the
early movies in the series and he also
has a parent competition within the
movie he occupies that's why Rick is
going to act as our first monster [ __ ]
he'll be the benchmark against which we
judge the others in future episodes if
you have a favorite and you'd like to
see how they stack up please post about
it in the comments below thanks for
watching